feat(elastic explorer): adding documentation for cognizone elastic ex… (#11)
cognizone/ng-cognizone: apps/docs/docs/libraries/elastic-explorer/user-guide/how-to-use.md

  - ### Filter by facets

    Users can filter data based on the value in the facet

    [![facets](/elastic-explorer/img/facets.png)](/elastic-explorer/img/facets.png)

- There are 2 additional options that have been adapted in the filters section,
  - Manual Mode - The user can modify the existing query which is generated on the selection of the filters and the query can be updated to create more complex conditions as per the need of the user.

    [![manualMode](/elastic-explorer/img/manualMode.png)](/elastic-explorer/img/manualMode.png)

  - Enable full-text search - Enables fuzzyText search.

---

## Result

- On selection of the elastic url and index, all the elastic documents are now loaded comprising of properties like index, uri, type, and label which can be viewed in a tabular format(by default), along with 2 more view types like structured and raw(similar to elastichead), discussed in the below sections.

  The data can be viewed in the 3 different modes -

  - ### Tabular
    On selection of the elastic document, a popup window appears on which a keyword search is possible, which makes it easier to look for a property within the document.

>     The tabular view also has pagination parameters that can be modified to view multiple elastic documents.
> 
>     [![table](/elastic-explorer/img/table.png)](/elastic-explorer/img/table.png)
> 
>   - ### Structured
>     Elastic documents can be viewed in a structured format.
> 
>     [![structured](/elastic-explorer/img/structured.png)](/elastic-explorer/img/structured.png)
> 
>   - ### Raw
>     Elastic documents can be viewed in a raw format similar to elastic head
> 
>     [![raw](/elastic-explorer/img/rawFormat.png)](/elastic-explorer/img/rawFormat.png)
> 
> 
> 
> 
> ---
> 
> 
> ## Data
> 
> The user can now access these elastic documents and see the data in 3 different data formats when the user clicks on an elastic document. This will open a popup that allows the user to even search by Uri or a keyword.
> 
> - ### Raw
> 
>   The user can view the raw data of the selected elastic document that will comprise of source, included, and facets if associated with the document.
> 
>   [![rawData](/elastic-explorer/img/rawData.png)](/elastic-explorer/img/rawData.png)
> 
> - ### JsonModelFlatGraph
> 
>   The user can view all the models available in an elastic document, so viewing complex data within the document is simplified and is a useful feature for developers and project managers.
> 
>   [![jsonModelFlatGraph](/elastic-explorer/img/jsonModelFlatGraph.png)](/elastic-explorer/img/jsonModelFlatGraph.png)
> 
> - ### JsonModel
> 
>   The user can view the elastic document where the graphs are transformed to JsonModel, inspired by json-id, where the graph is unflattened so the reference to other nodes is directly the node that you are looking for.
> 
>   [![jsonModel](/elastic-explorer/img/jsonModel.png)](/elastic-explorer/img/jsonModel.png)
> 
> ---
> 
> ## Search
> 
> - Search by URI and search by keyword is possible within the elastic document, so that way if a user is looking for a term within a node or a term in facets, the result can be obtained. The search takes place on every keystroke.
> 
>   [![searchByUri](/elastic-explorer/img/searchByUri.png)](/elastic-explorer/img/searchByUri.png)
> 
>   [![searchByKeyword](/elastic-explorer/img/searchByKeyword.png)](/elastic-explorer/img/searchByKeyword.png)
> 
> ---
> 
> ## Data Validation
> 
> - This section can be used to look for errors that are present in the elastic document which can be downloaded in the excel format and can be shared with other users with the share button.
>   To generate the report, click on the generate report button.
> 
>   [![dataValidation](/elastic-explorer/img/dataValidation.png)](/elastic-explorer/img/dataValidation.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---
id: 'How-to-use'
title: 'How to use'
sidebar_label: 'How to use'
sidebar_position: 2
custom_edit_url: null
---

Here is a basic tutorial on how to use the application.

## Querying an Elasticsearch cluster

### Elasticsearch Cluster Selection

Once the user has access to the application, there is an elastic cluster selection section in the top left part of the page. At first start, no Elastic cluster is configured but some configurations can be added easily by clicking on the "settings" button in the same part of the screen. In the opened dialog, the user can either:

- Click on the "plus" button to add a new Elastic cluster configuration. The only needed part is the url of that cluster, but the user can provide a label for ease of use.
- Click on the "download" button to download the current list on instances as a json configuration file.
- Click on the "upload" button to upload a json file representing the list of elastic instances to be used by the app. <a download target="\_blank" href="/elastic-explorer/elastic-instances.json">Here</a> is an example of what such file could look like
- edit or delete any existing Elastic cluster definition.

[![jsonfileupload](/elastic-explorer/img/jsonUpload.png)](/elastic-explorer/img/jsonUpload.png)

When the user selects the Elastic cluster url, the list of available indexes will then be updated automatically. It is to be noted that it is not necessary to select an index to start searching on a cluster, but it's advised to nonetheless.

[![index](/elastic-explorer/img/index.png)](/elastic-explorer/img/index.png)

---

### Filtering

Right below the "Elastic cluster selection" part, the Filter section allows the user to fill multiple inputs to feed the building of the query that will be run against the selected cluster. It is to be noted that those fields are tightly linked the "Hal-ed TypedResource" model that we use at Cognizone. If you are not looking at such kind of data, you should directly use the "manual mode" (more information below).

#### Filter by uri

Users can filter data based on the uri of the elastic document. Depending on the mapping configuration of the Elastic cluster, this field might also do partial matches. So the equivalent of what is typed in the image below could just be `curia/20195271`. (this field is targeting `data.uri`)

[![uri](/elastic-explorer/img/uriFilter.png)](/elastic-explorer/img/uriFilter.png)

#### Filter by type

Users can filter data based on the available types (this is targeting the `data.type` attribute).

[![types](/elastic-explorer/img/multipleTypes.png)](/elastic-explorer/img/multipleTypes.png)

#### Filter by included

Users can filter data based on the included uris or types within the elastic document. (this field is targeting `included.uri`)

[![included](/elastic-explorer/img/included.png)](/elastic-explorer/img/included.png)

#### Filter by facets

Users can filter data based on the value in the facet. This targets all the fields in `facets`, and should return document where at least one facet attribute is matching the query.

[![facets](/elastic-explorer/img/facets.png)](/elastic-explorer/img/facets.png)

- There are 2 additional options that have been adapted in the filters section,

#### Manual Mode

The user can modify the existing query which is generated on the selection of the filters and the query can be updated to create more complex conditions as per the need of the user.

[![manualMode](/elastic-explorer/img/manualMode.png)](/elastic-explorer/img/manualMode.png)

#### Enable full text search

This provides the ability to toggle a soft full-text search for the other fields in the filters.

---

### Result

On selection of the elastic url and index, all the elastic documents are now loaded comprising of properties like index, uri, type, and label which can be viewed in a tabular format(by default), along with 2 more view types like structured and raw(similar to elastichead), discussed in the below sections. It is to be noted that "label" is not really a set property, but the app tries to find the first attribute that could pass as a label for the fetched document (one of the rules to find such label is to find a property name that contains "title" for example).

The data can be viewed in the 3 different modes -

#### Tabular view

On selection of the elastic document, a popup window appears on which a keyword search is possible, which makes it easier to look for a property within the document.
The tabular view also has pagination parameters that can be modified to view multiple elastic documents.

[![table](/elastic-explorer/img/table.png)](/elastic-explorer/img/table.png)

#### Structured view

Elastic documents can be viewed in a structured format.

[![structured](/elastic-explorer/img/structured.png)](/elastic-explorer/img/structured.png)

##### Raw view

Elastic documents can be viewed in a raw format similar to elastic head

[![raw](/elastic-explorer/img/rawFormat.png)](/elastic-explorer/img/rawFormat.png)

---

### Documents detail view

On the table view, the user can now access these elastic documents and see the data in 3 different data formats when the user clicks on an elastic document. This will open a popup that allows the user to even search by Uri or a keyword.

#### Raw view

The user can view the raw data of the selected elastic document, whatever its \_source look like.

[![rawData](/elastic-explorer/img/rawData.png)](/elastic-explorer/img/rawData.png)

#### JsonModelFlatGraph view

This view is available only if the document contains an "Hal-ed TypedResource". The user can view all the models available in an elastic document, so viewing complex data within the document is simplified and is a useful feature for developers and project managers.

[![jsonModelFlatGraph](/elastic-explorer/img/jsonModelFlatGraph.png)](/elastic-explorer/img/jsonModelFlatGraph.png)

#### JsonModel view

This view is available only if the document contains an "Hal-ed TypedResource". The user can view the elastic document where the graphs are transformed to JsonModel, inspired by json-ld, where the graph is unflattened so the reference to other nodes is directly the node that you are looking for.

[![jsonModel](/elastic-explorer/img/jsonModel.png)](/elastic-explorer/img/jsonModel.png)

---

#### Searching trough the document

Search by URI and search by keyword is possible within the elastic document, so that way if a user is looking for a term within a node or a term in facets, the result can be obtained. The search takes place on every keystroke.

[![searchByUri](/elastic-explorer/img/searchByUri.png)](/elastic-explorer/img/searchByUri.png)

[![searchByKeyword](/elastic-explorer/img/searchByKeyword.png)](/elastic-explorer/img/searchByKeyword.png)

---

## Data Validation

Accessible trough the associated button in the toolbar of the app, this section can be used to look for errors that are present in the elastic document which can be downloaded in .csv format.
To generate the report, click on the generate report button at the top right corner of the table.

[![dataValidation](/elastic-explorer/img/dataValidation.png)](/elastic-explorer/img/dataValidation.png)

## Sharing

Most pages can be shared using the share button at the bottom right of the screen. This is done to put in the clipboard a "share friendly" url that can be clicked by other people that also have the app installed and have enable protocol handling for it (as seen in the installation part of this guide).

This is done because host part of the url for this extension will change from user to user, so urls copied directly from the browser's bar cannot be used by other users (or not without some tweaking).

```
